Hello everyone and welcome to part two object oriented programming object oriented programming as a
way to use Python to create our own objects.
And sometimes it can be a point of great confusion for beginners and mainly because it's often just
talk poorly.
You're kind of just thrown into object oriented programming taught a few keywords and expect to understand
everything all at once.
We're going to try our best to save you from any confusion by systematically building up and showing
you slowly the thought process behind object oriented programming.
Otherwise known as O.P..
And why would even need to use it.
We will use it quite a bit for Django.
So let's get started by showing you the basics.
This is going to be a single dot PI file.
For the notes part two object oriented programming that PI that is going to be multiple video lectures.
So keep that in mind.
We're going to break it into understandable steps.
Let's go to the editor now.
All right let's start off by trying to understand the fundamental idea behind object oriented programming.
Why would we even want to use it.
Well hopefully remember when we were first learning about basic data types and basic structures I could
do something like this say my list is equal to one to three.
And then when I said my list dot notice that I get a bunch of methods here a appends count extend pop
or move etc..
So there's a lot of methods available to me on this object.
And then I could say append the four here save this and then do something like Prince my list.
I save this run Python notes that pi or whatever file you have and I get one two three four.
Now the idea behind object oriented programming is this.
So far we have the capability to create a very simple function or even a very complex function.
What we don't yet know how to do is build something like a list object.
We don't know yet how can you build an object and then have methods inside of it or attributes inside
of it that you can use to affect the object itself.
And that's the whole idea of object oriented programming.
How are we able to actually create our own objects in Python.
We know how to use the built in objects in Python but we don't know how to actually build our own.
The first step on your journey of learning about object oriented programming is to realize that in Python
everything is an object and you can check an object type by saying type and then passing in an object
itself.
So for example if I pass in a list here I don't have to save it as a variable I can just say type and
let's print out that type.
So say print type here it tells me it's of the class list and class is going to be one of the key words
we use.
We're actually learning about object oriented programming.
So here I know that this is type list and I don't even actually have to have anything inside of it.
It can just be an empty list.
I can run this in a class list and if I replace this just to be Quincy's remember that's how we define
a tuple.
So if I save this and run this it says class tuple and we can see this for a variety of things.
Let's say pasan a number type McDermitt princes or bals there and I run this.
They'll say class I.A. or class Integer.
Make this twenty point zero.
Save this.
Run this and it says class floating point.
So what we want to know is how can we create our own classes in order to create our own object.
So we keep seeing this keyword class and we want to know how can we use it.
So let's actually show you so now that we understand everything in Python is an object we can use the
class keyword and the user defined objects are created using this keyword.
The class is essentially a blueprint that defines the nature of a future object and from classes we
can then construct instances of that class an instance is just a specific object created for a particular
class.
So for example previously we created the object my list that was an instance of a list object.
Let's see how we can actually use class.
First off we start with the class keyword.
And if you hit enter here you'll get class auto completed for you.
Let's create a sample class and note the syntax highlighting here.
And by convention class names are always capitalized.
That way you know whether you're calling a class or a function.
Functions are lowercase.
Classes are a start of an uppercase.
Now we have close parentheses.
Colon.
And then what goes here in your class.
Right now I'm going to use the pass keyword to not do anything.
We'll just say pass.
So I'm going to save the.
And then over here I will say x is equal to.
And I will say sample close princes and then I'm going to print the type of x.
Save this.
Let's run it.
And here it says class maned that sample and we'll discuss what main is in a future lecture.
Right now we can see that I'm getting a very similar result to what I saw previously with the builtin
classes.
I've now created in my own class my own object called sample all using the class keyword.
All right.
That's it for this lecture.
So far all I want you to understand is that everything in Python is an object and we can create our
own objects using the class keyword and we can check with the type built in function what the actual
class is coming up next.
We're going to learn how to add attributes and methods to a class and we're going to start right where
we left off.
In this video I'll see you at the next lecture.